IMP5
====

IMP5 - Heating, current drive and fast particles
------------------------------------------------

The aim of the Integrated Modelling Project #5 on “Heating, Current
Drive and Fast Particles” is to develop a package of codes for
prediction and interpretation of heating, current drive and fast
particle effects. The areas to be covered include ECRH, ICRH, NBI, LH,
alpha particles and fast particle interaction with instabilities. The
ultimate goal is to enable self-consistent simulation of heating and
current drive in the presence of fast particle instabilities, especially
for ITER.

A self-consistent treatment of all possible heating scenarios is a very
challenging problem with current modelling capabilities. Owing to the
vastly different time scales for wave propagation and the evolution of
distribution functions, simulations of heating and current drive can, in
general, be obtained by combining codes solving the wave fields at time
slices with codes evolving the distribution functions between the time
slices. The goal is to have at least one module for each physics area at
two levels: one basic and less detailed enabling fast computations, and
one advanced, but computationally expensive, enabling detailed
computations of the distribution functions of electrons and ions during
heating and current drive, ultimately incorporating non-linear effects
of instabilities and their redistribution fast ions.

In 2010, the work on adapting code modules to ITM requirements will be
consolidated such that essential modules are available for providing the
necessary input to the transport solver ETS
(`IMP3 <imp3_public.html>`__). The data structures relating to the
physics of Heating & Current drive and fast particle physics will be
improved further. New modules will be considered and adapted to the ITM
standards. When more than one module of a certain type is available,
work on cross verification will start.

Public IMP5 pages
-----------------

To access the
public IMP5 pages
, an ITM password is needed.
