.. _world_itm_achievements:

ITM-TF Achievements
===================

During the first phase of the ITM-TF, surveys and cross-verification of
the available European models and numerical codes were performed within
the individual IMPs and the data-structure was extensively discussed and
defined. Equilibrium, linear MHD stability, core transport and RF wave
propagation, as well as the poloidal field systems and a few diagnostics
were the first topics addressed. Data structures have been finalised for
these and then expanded to address, among others, non-linear MHD, edge
physics, turbulence and neutral beam propagation. In parallel to the
development of the physics concepts, ITM-TF developed the tools to
manipulate the data structure and use it in fully flexible and modular
simulation workflows. The ITM database contains machine descriptions
from JET, Tore Supra, MAST, FTU, FAST, AUG, ITER as well as some
experimental data from Tore Supra and JET. The ITM-TF futher achieved
the development of the first release version of a fully modular and
versatile simulator, the ETS, with all the essential functionalities.
The validation of the ETS simualtor started in 2010 against the
state-of-the-art transport codes and ETS now starts to be used for the
first physics applications. Next steps are the validation of the
simulator for a complete discharge on existing experimental data with
the available modules, the integration of more quantitative physics
models ("ab-initio") and the integration of the whole modelling of the
device.
Some posters that describe the ITM were presented at an ITM EXPO at the
2011 EPS fusion conference in Strasbourg. Copies can be found
`here <#world_eps2011expo_posters>`__.

