.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   ../../../imp3/public/xml/ets
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/imp3_edge
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/imp3_core-edge
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/shots
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/meetings
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/imp3_tasks
   ../../../imp3/public/xml/practicalxml

.. _imp3_public:

IMP3
====

The Integrated Modelling Project #3 on "Transport Code and Discharge
Evolution" plays a central role in the Integrated Tokamak Modelling Task
Force (EU-IM-TF): virtually all the other modelling projects will need
information on the plasma state (densities, temperatures etc.) simulated
by IMP3 modules; at the same time these modules require data from the
other projects' modelling codes, e.g. auxiliary heating deposition
profiles. The ultimate goal of the IMP3 activity, and the EU-IM-TF in
general, is whole device modelling, i.e. integrating modelling of all
the essential processes relevant for a fusion plasma. Within IMP3 itself
the major challenge is to integrate modelling of different transport
processes and regions of a fusion device. For instance the core
transport needs to be coupled to the edge transport, which in its turn
must be integrated with models for the thermal properties of targets
etc. Moreover, the developed transport code interfaces must be adapted
to incorporate the data structures that provide the necessary
information, e.g. sources and sinks, simulated by codes from the other
IMPs. In fact, models of different complexity and scope are needed for
the EU-IM-TF, ranging from 0D modelling for fast routine assessments of
various scenarios to 2D-3D models that integrate all the relevant
regions of a fusion plasma.

`Links to IMP3 private pages <https://www.efda-itm.eu/IMP3/html/index.html>`__
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

`Links to IMP3 old pages (before 2008) <../imports/index.html>`__
-----------------------------------------------------------------

